The standard error (= σ / √n ) quantifies how much the sample means vary from sample to sample.
That is, the standard error is just another name for the estimated standard deviation of all the
possible sample means.


The standard error is measures the accuracy with which a sample represents a population.
  The larger the standard error, the wider the confidence interval about the statistic.
  In fact, the confidence interval can be so large that it is as large as the full range of values,
  or even larger.
  In that case, the statistic provides no information about the location of the population parameter.

The standard error of the mean (SEM) can provide a rough estimate of the interval
in which the population mean is likely to fall.
The SEM, like the standard deviation, is multiplied by 1.96 to obtain an estimate
of where 95% of the population sample means are expected to fall in the theoretical sampling distribution.


The SE should not be used without indicating what parameter interval is being estimated:
  Every sample statistic can be used to estimate an SE (mean, slope of regression line, etc.)

A sample mean deviates from the actual mean of a population; this deviation is the standard error.

The SE is always an estimator of a population characteristic; it is not a descriptive statistic -
it is an inferential statistic.

Every inferential statistic has an associated standard error.
The SE is an estimate of the interval into which a population parameter will probably fall.
The SE also enables the investigator to choose the probability that the parameter will
fall within the estimated interval, usually called the "confidence interval."

Therefore:
  the SE has nothing to do with standards or with
  errors; it has to do with predicting confidence
  intervals from samples.


Relationship to standard deviation
----------------------------------
  Standard error = standard deviation devided by the square root of the sample size
  --> The more data points involved in the calculations of the mean,
      the smaller the standard error tends to be.

Feinstein noted:
  A standard error has nothing to do with
  standards, with errors, or with the communication
  of scientific data. The concept is an
  abstract idea, spawned by the imaginary
  world of statistical inference and pertinent
  only when certain operations of that imaginary world
  are met in scientific reality

Glanz
  Most medical investigators summarize their
  data with the standard error because it is
  always smaller than the standard deviation.
  It makes their data look better [...]
  data should never be summarized with the standard
  error of the mean.


Example
-------

Here is a statement containing the SE:
  The mean of the sample was 73 mg/dL, with an SE of the mean of
  3 mg/dL.
  
  This implies that the mean of the population from which the sample
  was randomly taken will fall, with 95% probability, in the interval of
  73 ± (1.96 x 3), which is from 67.12 to 78.88. 
  
  Technically the statement should be: 95 out of 100 confidence
  intervals calculated in this manner will
  include the population parameter
