Die Unsicherheiten der Auswertungen werden mit Konfidenzintervallen abgeschätzt.

Das 95% Konfidenzintervall bezeichnet den Bereich, der bei unendlicher Wiederholung
eines Zufallsexperiments mit einer Wahrscheinlichkeit von 95 Prozent den wahren Wert
der Grundgesamtheit einschliesst.
--
This has a relation to data dredging:
  Data dredging (also data fishing, data snooping, data butchery, and
  p-hacking) is the misuse of data analysis to find patterns in data that can
  be presented as statistically significant when in fact there is no real
  underlying effect. 
  --
  This is done by performing many statistical tests on the data and only paying
  attention to those that come back with significant results,
  --
  Conventional tests of statistical significance are based on the probability
  that a particular result would arise if chance alone were at work, and
  necessarily accept some risk of mistaken conclusions of a certain type
  (mistaken rejections of the null hypothesis). This level of risk is called
  the significance. 
  When large numbers of tests are performed, some produce false results of this
  type, hence 5% of randomly chosen hypotheses turn out to be significant at
  the 5% level, 1% turn out to be significant at the 1% significance level, 
  

Das Konfidenzintervall wird auch als Vertrauensintervall oder Erwartungsbereich bezeichnet.

Confidence intervals are closely related to statistical significance testing.
For example, if for some estimated parameter θ one wants to test the null
hypothesis that θ = 0 against the alternative that θ ≠ 0, then this test can be
performed by determining whether the confidence interval for θ contains 0.

... Offenbar wird eine Zahl mit einer unteren und oberen Grenze (die eben dieses Interval einschliest)
versehen ...

Relationship to standard error
------------------------------

  The SE is an estimate of the interval into which a population parameter will probably fall.
  The SE also enables the investigator to choose the probability that the parameter will
  fall within the estimated interval, usually called the "confidence interval."

Learning about population parameter
-----------------------------------
   Convidence interval is one (of two) ways to learn about a population parameter.
  (The other is hypothesis testing)
